xcii LIFE or 11001111 moon.

ever it was, Ι am certainly of opinion that the Devil
had nothing to do with 111010. Τ11057 were produced
by Bacon's great skill in mechanics‚ and his know-
ledge of the powers of 010011101157, and not, as the
ignorant and even the better insorined surmised‚ molten
01111 forged in an infernal furnace. John Picus, the
celebrated count of Μ1101111010, and the glory of his
age, distinguishes between 1110 two kinds of magio,
referring one to diabolical agency and the other to a
consummate knowlege of natural 0011000 and effects.¹
The Greeks distingujsh these differences by two names,
calling the former γοητεία, and the latter, or true
philosophy, μαγεία. According to Porphyry, magio has
the same distinction in the Persian tongue. To the
0110101110 Ι 10057 add the moderns, as Alchindus the
Ambian, Roger Bacon‚ William bishop of Paris be-
tween whom and our author there was a great friend-
ship, as may be seen by their correspondence on the
operatione of art and nature, and the follies and vani-
ties of magio.

But to return. Many, as Ι have remarked, accused
Bacon, whilst thus employed upon works beyond the
comprehension of 1110 age, of a compact with the Devil,
which is 1101 10 be wondered at, seeing that in later
times Reuchlin, for his knowledge of Hebrcw, and
Budaeus, for his knowledge of Greek, drew on 1110111-
0011700 1110 hatred and envy of foolish and unlearned
monks. So great was the ignorance of 1110 110100 that
it is not surprising if men living in such darkness
should attribute to demons the operations of natural
bodies3 follies which disappear before the light of rea-
son. Such deep ignorance shrouded convents and
11001011100 that the monks and friars could not believe
that any one could gain acquaintance with the learned
languages except by the aid os secret intercourse with

 

¹ In orat. Dc Dignitatc 1101111010.

